feat: Adjust Loader docs (#6601)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/javascript/common/install/loader.mdx

---
title: Loader Script
sidebar_order: 10
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/javascript/loader/
  - /platforms/javascript/install/lazy-load-sentry/
  - /platforms/javascript/install/cdn/
description: "Learn about the Sentry JavaScript Loader Script"
---

> The Loader is a small script that takes care for you initializing the SDK for you, as well as keep it up-to-date. It is desgined as a drop in solution that you don't have to think about a lot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Loader Script is the easiest way to initialize the Sentry SDK. The Loader Script also automatically keeps your Sentry SDK up to date and offers configuration for different Sentry features.
```

## Using the Loader

> 
> To use the loader, go in the Sentry UI to _Settings -> Projects -> Client Keys (DSN)_, and then press the _Configure_ button. Copy the script tag from the _JavaScript Loader_ section, and include it as the first script on your page. (By including it first, you allow it to catch and buffer events from any subsequent scripts, while still ensuring the full SDK doesn't load until after everything else has run.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the loader, go in the Sentry UI to **Settings > Projects > (select project) > Client Keys (DSN)**, and then press the "Configure" button. Copy the script tag from the "JavaScript Loader" section and include it as the first script on your page. By including it first, you allow it to catch and buffer events from any subsequent scripts, while still ensuring the full SDK doesn't load until after everything else has run.
```

I realized after making this tweak that this is just copied from the original page, but it would still be nice to tweak it to fit our style guide :D

```html
<script
  src="https://js.sentry-cdn.com/___PUBLIC_KEY___.min.js"
  crossorigin="anonymous"
></script>
```

By default, Performance Monitoring and Session Replay is enabled. 

## Source Maps

> In order to have working SourceMaps when using the Loader Script, you will have to [upload & host them publicly](/platforms/javascript/sourcemaps/uploading/hosting-publicly/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make source maps when using the Loader Script, you must [upload and host your source maps publicly](/platforms/javascript/sourcemaps/uploading/hosting-publicly/).
```

Reviewer 2: I updated this to:

> To have correct stack traces for minified asset files when using the Loader Script, you will have to [upload & host your Source Maps publicly].

WDYT?

## Loader Configuration

The loader has a few configuration options:

> - What version of the SDK to load
> - Using Performance Monitoring
> - Using Session Replay
> - Show debug logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- What version of the SDK to load
- Using Performance Monitoring
- Using Session Replay
- Showing debug logs
```

### SDK Version

> To configure the version, use the dropdown in the _JavaScript Loader_ settings, directly beneath the script tag you copied earlier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure the version, use the dropdown in the "JavaScript Loader" settings, directly beneath the script tag you copied earlier.
```

Once one of those occurs, the loader will buffer that event and immediately request the full SDK from our CDN. Any events that occur between that request being made and the completion of SDK initialization will also be buffered, and all buffered events will be sent to Sentry once the SDK is fully initialized.

Alternatively, you can set the loader to request the full SDK earlier: still as part of page load, but _after_ all of the other JavaScript on the page has run. (In other words, in a subsequent event loop.) To do this, include `data-lazy="no"` in your script tag.

```html
<script
  src="https://js.sentry-cdn.com/___PUBLIC_KEY___.min.js"
  crossorigin="anonymous"
  data-lazy="no"
></script>
```

Finally, if you want to control the timing yourself, you can call `Sentry.forceLoad()`. You can do this as early as immediately after the loader runs (which has the same effect as setting `data-lazy="no"`) and as late as the first unhandled error, unhandled promise rejection, or call to `Sentry.captureMessage` or `Sentry.captureEvent` (which has the same effect as not calling it at all). Note that you can't delay loading past one of the aforementioned triggering events.

> If Performance Monitoring and/or Session Replay is enabled, we immediately need to fetch and initialize the bundle to make sure we are able to capture transactions/replays when the page loaded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If Performance Monitoring and/or Session Replay is enabled, the SDK will immediately fetch and initialize the bundle to make sure it can capture transactions and/or replays once the page loads.
```

## SDK Configuration

You can configure the release by adding the following to your page:

```html
<script>
  window.SENTRY_RELEASE = {
    id: "..."
  };  
</script>
```

> The loader script always includes a call to `Sentry.init` with some default configuration, including your DSN. If you want to [configure your SDK](../../configuration/options/) beyond that, you'll need a second script tag, in which you'll call `Sentry.onLoad`. This script must come _after_ the main loader script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The loader script always includes a call to `Sentry.init` with a default configuration, including your DSN. If you want to [configure your SDK](../../configuration/options/) beyond that, you'll need a second script tag, in which you'll call `Sentry.onLoad`. This script must come _after_ the main loader script.
```

```html
<script
  src="https://js.sentry-cdn.com/___PUBLIC_KEY___.min.js"
  crossorigin="anonymous"
></script>
<script>
  Sentry.onLoad(function() { ... });
</script>
```

`Sentry.onLoad` is a function that only the loader provides, and - as the name suggests - it sets a function to be run once the full SDK has been loaded. In that function, you can configure your SDK exactly the way you would were you using the CDN, with one difference: your `Sentry.init` call doesn't need to include your DSN, since it's already been set.

```html
<script>
  Sentry.onLoad(function() {
    Sentry.init({
      release: " ... ",
      environment: " ... "
    });
    Sentry.configureScope(scope => {
      scope.setTag( ... );
    });
    // etc.
  });
</script>
```

> For Performance Monitoring, by default the SDK will be initialized with `tracesSampleRate: 1` and for Session Replay `replaysSessionSampleRate: 0.1` and `replaysOnErrorSampleRate: 1`. Put it words, we capture all pages with Performance Monitoring, Replays of 10% of all sessions as well as Replays for all sessions with an error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Performance Monitoring, by default, the SDK will be initialized with `tracesSampleRate: 1`. This means that the SDK will capture all traces.

For Session Replay, the defaults are set to `replaysSessionSampleRate: 0.1` and `replaysOnErrorSampleRate: 1`. This means Replays will be captured for 10% of all normal sessions and for all sessions with an error.
```

> ## **Limitations for error-only capturing**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## **Limitations of error-only capturing**
```

> Because the loader injects the SDK asynchronously (only for errors), only _unhandled errors_ and _unhandled promise rejections_ will be caught and buffered before the SDK is fully loaded. Specifically, the capturing of any [breadcrumb data](../../enriching-events/breadcrumbs/) will not be available until the SDK is fully loaded and initialized. To reduce the amount of time these features are unavailable, set `data-lazy="no"` or call `forceLoad()` as described above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the Loader Script with just errors, the script injects the SDK asynchronously. This means that only _unhandled errors_ and _unhandled promise rejections_ will be caught and buffered before the SDK is fully loaded. Specifically, capturing [breadcrumb data](../../enriching-events/breadcrumbs/) will not be available until the SDK is fully loaded and initialized. To reduce the amount of time these features are unavailable, set `data-lazy="no"` or call `forceLoad()` as described above.
```

If you want to understand the inner workings of the loader itself, you can read the documented source code in all its glory over at the [sentry repository](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry/blob/master/src/sentry/templates/sentry/js-sdk-loader.ts).

> # CDN

Reviewer: The headers in the rest of this doc are all 1 layer too shallow, which means they're broken in the "on this page sidebar".

My top choice would be to keep this CDN content in it's own page, but if not, all these headers need to be 1 layer more nested, e.g. 

```suggestion
## CDN
```

Reviewer 2: The idea to put this there is to hide this away - we want people to use the loader, not the CDN!
